SCENE I

It is six o'clock of a November evening, in KEITH DARRANT'S
study.  A large, dark-curtained room where the light from a single
reading-lamp falling on Turkey carpet, on books beside a large
armchair, on the deep blue-and-gold coffee service, makes a sort of
oasis before a log fire.  In red Turkish slippers and an old brown
velvet coat, KEITH DARRANT sits asleep.  He has a dark, clean-cut,
clean-shaven face, dark grizzling hair, dark twisting eyebrows.

[The curtained door away out in the dim part of the room behind
him is opened so softly that he does not wake.  LARRY DARRANT
enters and stands half lost in the curtain over the door.  A
thin figure, with a worn, high cheek-boned face, deep-sunk blue
eyes and wavy hair all ruffled--a face which still has a certain
beauty.  He moves inwards along the wall, stands still again and
utters a gasping sigh.  KEITH stirs in his chair.]

KEITH.
SCENE II

At out eleven o'clock the following night an WANDA'S room on the
ground floor in Soho.  In the light from one close-shaded
electric bulb the room is but dimly visible.  A dying fire burns
on the left.  A curtained window in the centre of the back wall.
A door on the right.  The furniture is plush-covered and
commonplace, with a kind of shabby smartness.  A couch, without
back or arms, stands aslant, between window and fire.

[On this WANDA is sitting, her knees drawn up under her, staring
at the embers.  She has on only her nightgown and a wrapper over
it; her bare feet are thrust into slippers.  Her hands are
crossed and pressed over her breast.  She starts and looks up,
listening.  Her eyes are candid and startled, her face alabaster
pale, and its pale brown hair, short and square-cut, curls
towards her bare neck.  The startled dark eyes and the faint
rose of her lips are like colour-staining on a white mask.]

[Footsteps as of a policeman, very measured, pass on the
pavement outside, and die away.  She gets up and steals to the
window, draws one curtain aside so that a chink of the night is
seen.  She opens the curtain wider, till the shape of a bare,
witch-like tree becomes visible in the open space of the little
Square on the far side of the road.  The footsteps are heard
once more coming nearer.  WANDA closes the curtains and cranes
back.  They pass and die again.  She moves away and looking down
at the floor between door and couch, as though seeing something
there;  shudders; covers her eyes; goes back to the couch and
down again just as before, to stare at the embers.  Again she is
startled by noise of the outer door being opened.  She springs
up, runs and turns the light by a switch close to the door.  By
the glimmer of the fire she can just be seen standing by the
dark window-curtains, listening.  There comes the sound of
subdued knocking on her door.  She stands in breathless terror.
The knocking is repeated.  The sound of a latchkey in the door
is heard.  Her terror leaves her.  The door opens; a man enters
in a dark, fur overcoat.]

WANDA.
SCENE III.

TWO MONTHS LATER

WANDA'S room.  Daylight is just beginning to fail of a January
afternoon.  The table is laid for supper, with decanters of
wine.

WANDA is standing at the window looking out at the wintry trees
of the Square beyond the pavement.  A newspaper Boy's voice is
heard coming nearer.

VOICE.
SCENES

SCENE I

Afternoon, on the departure platform of an Austrian railway
station.  At several little tables outside the buffet persons
are taking refreshment, served by a pale young waiter.  On a
seat against the wall of the buffet a woman of lowly station is
sitting beside two large bundles, on one of which she has placed
her baby, swathed in a black shawl.

WAITER.
SCENE II

A second-class compartment of a corridor carriage, in motion.
In it are seated the ENGLISHMAN and his WIFE, opposite each
other at the corridor end, she with her face to the engine, he
with his back.  Both are somewhat protected from the rest of the
travellers by newspapers.  Next to her sits the GERMAN, and
opposite him sits the AMERICAN; next the AMERICAN in one window
corner is seated the DUTCH YOUTH; the other window corner is
taken by the GERMAN'S bag.  The silence is only broken by the
slight rushing noise of the train's progression and the
crackling of the English newspapers.

AMERICAN.
SCENE III

An arrival platform.  The LITTLE MAN, with the BABY and the
bundle, is standing disconsolate, while travellers pass and
luggage is being carried by.  A STATION OFFICIAL, accompanied by
a POLICEMAN, appears from a doorway, behind him.

OFFICIAL.
SCENE

A Girl, sits crouched over her knees on a stile close to a
river.  A MAN with a silver badge stands beside her, clutching
the worn top plank.  THE GIRL'S level brows are drawn together;
her eyes see her memories.  THE MAN's eyes see THE GIRL; he has
a dark, twisted face.  The bright sun shines; the quiet river
flows; the Cuckoo is calling; the mayflower is in bloom along
the hedge that ends in the stile on the towing-path.

VANE.
An empty room.  The curtains drawn and gas turned low.  The
furniture and walls give a colour-impression as of greens and
beetroot.  There is a prevalence of plush.  A fireplace on the
Left, a sofa, a small table; the curtained window is at the
back.  On the table, in a common pot, stands a little plant of
maidenhair fern, fresh and green.

Enter from the door on the Right, a GIRL and a YOUNG OFFICER in
khaki.  The GIRL wears a discreet dark dress, hat, and veil, and
stained yellow gloves.  The YOUNG OFFICER is tall, with a fresh
open face, and kindly eager blue eyes; he is a little lame.  The
GIRL, who is evidently at home, moves towards the gas jet to
turn it up, then changes her mind, and going to the curtains,
draws them apart and throws up the window.  Bright moonlight
comes flooding in.  Outside are seen the trees of a little
Square.  She stands gazing out, suddenly turns inward with a
shiver.

The scene is the sitting-room and verandah of HER bungalow.

The room is pleasant, and along the back, where the verandah
runs, it seems all window, both French and casement.  There is a
door right and a door left.  The day is bright; the time
morning.

[HERSELF, dripping wet, comes running along the verandah,
through the French window, with a wet Scotch terrier in her
arms.  She vanishes through the door left.  A little pause, and
LADY ELLA comes running, dry, thin, refined, and agitated.  She
halts where the tracks of water cease at the door left.  A
little pause, and MAUD comes running, fairly dry, stolid,
breathless, and dragging a bull-dog, wet, breathless, and stout,
by the crutch end of her 'en-tout-cas'].

A Girl, sits crouched over her knees on a stile close to a
river.  A MAN with a silver badge stands beside her, clutching
the worn top plank.  THE GIRL'S level brows are drawn together;
her eyes see her memories.  THE MAN's eyes see THE GIRL; he has
a dark, twisted face.  The bright sun shines; the quiet river
flows; the Cuckoo is calling; the mayflower is in bloom along
the hedge that ends in the stile on the towing-path.

The Scene is the stage of the theatre set for the dress
rehearsal of the little play: "Orpheus with his Lute." The
curtain is up and the audience, though present, is not supposed
to be.  The set scene represents the end section of a room, with
wide French windows, Back Centre, fully opened on to an apple
orchard in bloom.  The Back Wall with these French windows, is
set only about ten feet from the footlights, and the rest of the
stage is orchard.  What is visible of the room would indicate
the study of a writing man of culture.  ( Note.--If found
advantageous for scenic purposes, this section of room can be
changed to a broad verandah or porch with pillars supporting its
roof.) In the wall, Stage Left, is a curtained opening, across
which the curtain is half drawn.  Stage Right of the French
windows is a large armchair turned rather towards the window,
with a book rest attached, on which is a volume of the
Encyclopedia Britannica, while on a stool alongside are writing
materials such as a man requires when he writes with a pad on
his knees.  On a little table close by is a reading-lamp with a
dark green shade.  A crude light from the floats makes the stage
stare; the only person on it is MR FORESON, the stage manager,
who is standing in the centre looking upwards as if waiting for
someone to speak.  He is a short, broad man, rather blank, and
fatal.  From the back of the auditorium, or from an empty box,
whichever is most convenient, the producer, MR BLEWITT VANE, a
man of about thirty four, with his hair brushed back, speaks.
