It is eight o'clock in the evening. The curtains are drawn and the lamps
lighted in the drawing room of Her flat in Cromwell Road. Her lover, a
beautiful youth of eighteen, in evening dress and cape, with a bunch of
flowers and an opera hat in his hands, comes in alone. The door is near
the corner; and as he appears in the doorway, he has the fireplace on
the nearest wall to his right, and the grand piano along the opposite
wall to his left. Near the fireplace a small ornamental table has on it
a hand mirror, a fan, a pair of long white gloves, and a little white
woollen cloud to wrap a woman's head in. On the other side of the room,
near the piano, is a broad, square, softly up-holstered stool. The room
is furnished in the most approved South Kensington fashion: that is, it
is as like a show room as possible, and is intended to demonstrate the
racial position and spending powers of its owners, and not in the least
to make them comfortable.

He is, be it repeated, a very beautiful youth, moving as in a dream,
walking as on air. He puts his flowers down carefully on the table
beside the fan; takes off his cape, and, as there is no room on the
table for it, takes it to the piano; puts his hat on the cape; crosses
to the hearth; looks at his watch; puts it up again; notices the things
on the table; lights up as if he saw heaven opening before him; goes to
the table and takes the cloud in both hands, nestling his nose into its
softness and kissing it; kisses the gloves one after another; kisses the
fan: gasps a long shuddering sigh of ecstasy; sits down on the stool and
presses his hands to his eyes to shut out reality and dream a little;
takes his hands down and shakes his head with a little smile of rebuke
for his folly; catches sight of a speck of dust on his shoes and hastily
and carefully brushes it off with his handkerchief; rises and takes
the hand mirror from the table to make sure of his tie with the gravest
anxiety; and is looking at his watch again when She comes in, much
flustered. As she is dressed for the theatre; has spoilt, petted ways;
and wears many diamonds, she has an air of being a young and beautiful
woman; but as a matter of hard fact, she is, dress and pretensions
apart, a very ordinary South Kensington female of about 37, hopelessly
inferior in physical and spiritual distinction to the beautiful youth,
who hastily puts down the mirror as she enters.

The Mayor's parlor in the Town Hall of Little Pifflington. Lord Augustus
Highcastle, a distinguished member of the governing class, in the
uniform of a colonel, and very well preserved at forty-five, is
comfortably seated at a writing-table with his heels on it, reading The
Morning Post. The door faces him, a little to his left, at the other
side of the room. The window is behind him. In the fireplace, a gas
stove. On the table a bell button and a telephone. Portraits of past
Mayors, in robes and gold chains, adorn the walls. An elderly clerk with
a short white beard and whiskers, and a very red nose, shuffles in.

A hotel sitting room. A table in the centre. On it a telephone. Two
chairs at it, opposite one another. Behind it, the door. The fireplace
has a mirror in the mantelpiece.

A spinster Princess, hatted and gloved, is ushered in by the hotel
manager, spruce and artifically bland by professional habit, but
treating his customer with a condescending affability which sails very
close to the east wind of insolence.

A lady and gentleman are sitting together on a chesterfield in a
retired corner of the lounge of a seaside hotel. It is a summer night:
the French window behind them stands open. The terrace without
overlooks a moonlit harbor. The lounge is dark. The chesterfield,
upholstered in silver grey, and the two figures on it in evening dress,
catch the light from an arc lamp somewhere; but the walls, covered with
a dark green paper, are in gloom. There are two stray chairs, one on
each side. On the gentleman's right, behind him up near the window, is
an unused fireplace. Opposite it on the lady's left is a door. The
gentleman is on the lady's right.

The lady is very attractive, with a musical voice and soft appealing
manners. She is young: that is, one feels sure that she is under
thirty-five and over twenty-four. The gentleman does not look much
older. He is rather handsome, and has ventured as far in the direction
of poetic dandyism in the arrangement of his hair as any man who is not
a professional artist can afford to in England. He is obviously very
much in love with the lady, and is, in fact, yielding to an
irresistible impulse to throw his arms around her.

General Mitchener is at his writing table in the War Office, opening
letters. On his left is the fireplace, with a fire burning. On his
right, against the opposite wall is a standing desk with an office
stool. The door is in the wall behind him, half way between the table
and the desk. The table is not quite in the middle of the room: it is
nearer to the hearthrug than to the desk. There is a chair at each end
of it for persons having business with the general. There is a telephone
on the table. Long silence.
