[SCENE.--ROBERT CRAWSHAW'S town house. Morning.]
[It is a June day before the war in the morning-room of ROBERT
CRAWSHAW'S town house. Entering it with our friend the house-agent, our
attention would first be called to the delightful club fender round the
fireplace. On one side of this a Chesterfield sofa comes out at right
angles. In a corner of the sofa MISS VIOLA CRAWSHAW is sitting, deep
in "The Times." The house-agent would hesitate to catalogue her, but
we notice for ourselves, before he points out the comfortable armchair
opposite, that she is young and pretty. In the middle of the room and
facing the fireplace is (observe) a solid knee-hole writing-table,
covered with papers and books of reference, and supported by a chair at
the middle and another at the side. The rest of the furniture, and the
books and pictures round the walls, we must leave until another time,
for at this moment the door behind the sofa opens and RICHARD MERITON
comes in. He looks about thirty-five, has a clean-shaven intelligent
face, and is dressed in a dark tweed suit. We withdraw hastily, as he
comes behind VIOLA and puts his hands over her eyes.]
[Enter MARGARET. MARGARET has been in love with ROBERT CRAWSHAW for
twenty-five years, the last twenty four years from habit. She is small,
comfortable, and rather foolish; you would certainly call her a dear,
but you might sometimes call her a poor dear.]
[Enter MR. DENIS CLIFTON. He sees them, and walks about very tactfully
with his back towards them, humming to himself.]
[SCENE.--The hall of SIR JAMES FARRINGDON'S house in the country.]
[It is a large and pleasantly unofficial sort of room, used as a
meeting-place rather than a resting place. To be in it pledges you to
nothing; whereas in the billiard-room you are presumably pledged to
billiards. The French windows at the back open on to lawns; the door on
the right at the back will take you into the outer hall; the door on
the left leads to the servants' quarters; the door on the right in front
will disclose other inhabited rooms to you. An oak gallery runs round
two sides of the hall and descends in broad and gentle stairs down the
right side of it. Four stairs from the bottom it turns round at right
angles and deposits you fairly in the hall. Entering in this way, you
will see immediately opposite to you the large open fireplace occupied
by a pile of unlit logs--for it is summer. There is a chair on each side
of the fireplace, but turned now away from it. In the left centre of the
hall there is a gate-legged table to which trays with drinks on them,
have a habit of finding their way; it is supported on each side by a
coffin-stool. A sofa, which will take two strangers comfortably and
three friends less comfortably, comes out at right angles to the
staircase, but leaves plenty of space between itself and the stool on
its side of the table. Beneath the window on the left of the French
windows is a small table on which letters and papers are put; beneath
the window on the other side is a writing-table. The walls are decorated
impartially with heads of wild animals and of Farringdons.]
[At the present moment the inhabitants of the hall are three. HENRY
WENTWORTH, a barrister between forty, and fifty, dressed in rather a
serious tweed suit, for a summer day, is on the sofa. THOMAS TODD,
an immaculate young gentleman of twenty-five, is half-sitting on the
gate-legged table with one foot on the ground and the other swinging. He
is dressed in a brown flannel coat and white trousers, shoes and socks,
and he has a putter in his hand indicative of his usual line of thought.
The third occupant is the Butler, who, in answer to TOMMY'S ring, has
appeared with the drinks.]
[Enter GERALD from the garden, a charming figure in a golfing coat and
white flannels. Perhaps he is a little conscious of his charm; if so, it
is hardly his fault, for hero-worship has been his lot from boyhood. He
is now about twenty-six; everything that he has ever tried to do he has
done well; and, if he is rather more unembarrassed than most of us when
praised, his unself-consciousness is to a stranger as charming as the
rest of him. With it all he is intensely reserved, with the result that
those who refuse to succumb to his charm sometimes make the mistake of
thinking that there is nothing behind it.]
[Enter suddenly LETTY HERBERT and TOMMY from the garden. LETTY is an
entirely delightful irresponsible girl of the type which might have
shocked Queen Victoria. However, she seems to suit TOMMY. They are not
engaged yet, but she has already that air of proprietorship.]
[Enter SIR JAMES and LADY FARRINGDON from the door to front of the
staircase. SIR JAMES, in a country check-suit, is a man of no particular
brain and no ideas, but he has an unconquerable belief in himself, and a
very genuine pride in, and admiration of, GERALD. His grey hair is bald
on the top, and he is clean-shaven except for a hint of whisker. He
might pass for a retired Captain R. N., and he has something of the
quarter-deck manner, so that even a remark on the weather is listened to
with attention. Neither of his sons loves him, but GERALD is no longer
afraid of him. LADY FARRINGDON is outwardly rather intimidating, but she
never feels so. She worships GERALD; and would love a good many other
people if they were not a little overawed by her.]
[Enter PAMELA from the door In front of the staircase, tall, beautiful
and serene, a born mother. GERALD carried her off her feet a month ago,
but it is a question if he really touched her heart--a heart moved more
readily by pity than by love.]
[Enter BOB from the outer hall in a blue flannel suit. He has spoilt any
chance he had of being considered handsome by a sullen expression now
habitual. Two years older than Gerald, he is not so tall, but bigger,
and altogether less graceful. He has got in the way of talking in rather
a surly voice, as if he suspected that any interest taken in him was
merely a polite one.]
[It is a quiet old-fashioned hotel which SIR JAMES and LADY FARRINGDON
patronize in Dover Street on their occasional visits to London. Their
private sitting-room is furnished in heavy early Victorian style. A
couple of gloomy palms help to decorate the room, on whose walls are
engravings of Landseer's masterpieces.]
[MASON, a faithful kindly body, once nurse, now familiar servant, is at
the table arranging flowers, in a gallant attempt to make the room more
cheerful. As she fills each vase she takes it to its place, steps back
to consider the effect, and returns to fill the next one. GERALD, in
London clothes as attractive as ever, but looking none rather serious,
discovers her at work.]
[SCENE.--In the hall at SIR JAMES FARRINGDON'S again. It is autumn nom
and there is a fire burning.]
[LETTY and TOMMY are on the sofa side by side, holding hands, and
looking the picture of peaceful happiness. Indeed, TOMMY has his mouth
open slightly.]
[She jumps up and goes out of the door in front of the staircase. TOMMY
following her.]
[The door on the right at the back opens quietly and BOB comes in. He
stands there for a moment looking at the hall, and then speaks over his
shoulder to somebody behind him.]
[SCENE.--A room in UNCLE JAMES'S house in the Cromwell Road.]
[TIME.--The day after the War.]
[Any room in UNCLE JAMES'S house is furnished in heavy mid-Victorian
style; this particular morning-room is perhaps solider and more
respectable even than the others, from the heavy table in the middle of
it to the heavy engravings on the walls. There are two doors to it.
The one at the back opens into the hall, the one at the side into the
dining-room.]
[PHILIP comes from the hall and goes into the dining-room. Apparently he
finds nothing there, for he returns to the morning-room, looks about him
for a moment and then rings the bell. It is ten o'clock, and he wants
his breakfast. He picks up the paper, and sits in a heavy armchair in
front of the fire--a pleasant-looking well-built person of twenty-three,
with an air of decisiveness about him. MARY, the parlour-maid, comes
in.]
[PHILIP goes out. JAMES, following him, turns at the door, and looks
round the room in a bewildered way. Was it a dream, or wasn't it? He
will never be quite certain.]
[BETTY, a middle-aged servant, is fastening a hammock--its first
appearance this year--between two trees at the back. In front of these
there is a solid oak garden-table, with a comfortable chair on the right
of it and a straight-backed one on the left. There are books, papers,
and magazines on the table. BELINDA, of whom we shall know more
presently, is on the other side of the open windows which look on to the
garden, talking to BETTY.]
[BETTY comes from the other side of the house into the garden, followed
by MR. BAXTER and MR. DEVENISH. MR. BAXTER is forty-five, prim and
erect, with close-trimmed moustache and side-whiskers. His clothes
are dark and he wears a bowler-hat. MR. DEVENISH is a long-haired,
good-looking boy in a négligé costume; perhaps twenty-two years old, and
very scornful of the world.]
[TREMAYNE comes in. He has been knocking about the world for eighteen
years, and is very much a man, though he has kept his manners. His hair
is greying a little at the sides, and he looks the forty-odd that he
is. Without his moustache and beard he is very different from the boy
BELINDA married.]
[It is morning in BELINDA'S hall, a low-roofed, oak-beamed place,
comfortably furnished as a sitting-room. There is an inner and an outer
front-door, both of which are open.]
[DEVENISH, who has just rung the bell, is waiting with a bouquet of
violets between the two. Midway on the right is a door leading to a
small room where hats and coats are kept. A door on the left leads
towards the living-rooms.]
[He looks round the room and discovers to his amazement that he is
alone. He claps on his bowler-hat, gives another amazed look round, says
with a shrug, "Unusual!" and goes out.]
[It is after dinner in BELINDA'S hall. BELINDA is lying on the sofa with
a coffee-cup in her hand. DELIA, in the chair on the right, has picked
up "The Lute of Love" from a table and is reading it impatiently.]
[In the living-room of a country-house, half farm, half manor, a MOTHER
and her DAUGHTER are sitting. It is any year you please--between, let
us say, the day when the fiddle first came to England and the day when
Romance left it. As for the time of the year, let us call it May. Oh
yes, it is certainly May, and about twelve o'clock, and the DAUGHTER is
singing at the spinet, while her MOTHER is at her needlework. Through
the lattice windows the murmur of a stream can be heard, on whose
banks--but we shall come to that directly. Let us listen now to what the
DAUGHTER is singing:]
[The TALKER comes in at the door, followed by the SINGER and the
FIDDLER. The SINGER is a pleasant-looking man of middle height, the
FIDDLER a tall, silent girl. The TALKER himself is short and round, with
a twinkling eye. Each wears a cap with a red feather in it.]
[The other three come in. The DAUGHTER has found from somewhere a cap
with a red feather in it. They stand in a row opposite the MOTHER, and
to the FIDDLER'S accompaniment sing a merry song.]
[The TALKER and the MOTHER come in arm-in-arm. He bows to her and takes
the floor.]
[The FIDDLER comes in, wearing her cap now with the red feather in it.
She is playing a wild song, a song of the road. She is content again.
She goes up the room, and as she passes them she gives them a little
bend of the head and the beginnings of a grave smile. She goes out
of the door, still playing; she is still playing as she goes past the
windows. They follow her with their eyes. When she is gone they still
listen until the music dies in the distance.]