SCENE--_The firemen's forecastle of a transatlantic liner an hour after
sailing from New York for the voyage across. Tiers of narrow, steel
bunks, three deep, on all sides. An entrance in rear. Benches on the
floor before the bunks. The room is crowded with men, shouting,
cursing, laughing, singing--a confused, inchoate uproar swelling into a
sort of unity, a meaning--the bewildered, furious, baffled defiance of
a beast in a cage. Nearly all the men are drunk. Many bottles are
passed from hand to hand. All are dressed in dungaree pants, heavy ugly
shoes. Some wear singlets, but the majority are stripped to the waist._

_The treatment of this scene, or of any other scene in the play, should
by no means be naturalistic. The effect sought after is a cramped space
in the bowels of a ship, imprisoned by white steel. The lines of bunks,
the uprights supporting them, cross each other like the steel framework
of a cage. The ceiling crushes down upon the men's heads. They cannot
stand upright. This accentuates the natural stooping posture which
shovelling coal and the resultant over-development of back and shoulder
muscles have given them. The men themselves should resemble those
pictures in which the appearance of Neanderthal Man is guessed at. All
are hairy-chested, with long arms of tremendous power, and low,
receding brows above their small, fierce, resentful eyes. All the
civilized white races are represented, but except for the slight
differentiation in color of hair, skin, eyes, all these men are alike._

_The curtain rises on a tumult of sound. YANK is seated in the
foreground. He seems broader, fiercer, more truculent, more powerful,
more sure of himself than the rest. They respect his superior
strength--the grudging respect of fear. Then, too, he represents to
them a self-expression, the very last word in what they are, their most
highly developed individual._

SCENE--Two days out. A section of the promenade deck. MILDRED DOUGLAS
and her aunt are discovered reclining in deck chairs. The former is a
girl of twenty, slender, delicate, with a pale, pretty face marred by a
self-conscious expression of disdainful superiority. She looks fretful,
nervous and discontented, bored by her own anemia. Her aunt is a
pompous and proud--and fat--old lady. She is a type even to the point
of a double chin and lorgnettes. She is dressed pretentiously, as if
afraid her face alone would never indicate her position in life.
MILDRED is dressed all in white.

The impression to be conveyed by this scene is one of the beautiful,
vivid life of the sea all about--sunshine on the deck in a great flood,
the fresh sea wind blowing across it. In the midst of this, these two
incongruous, artificial figures, inert and disharmonious, the elder
like a gray lump of dough touched up with rouge, the younger looking as
if the vitality of her stock had been sapped before she was conceived,
so that she is the expression not of its life energy but merely of the
artificialities that energy had won for itself in the spending.

SCENE--The stokehole. In the rear, the dimly-outlined bulks of the
furnaces and boilers. High overhead one hanging electric bulb sheds
just enough light through the murky air laden with coal dust to pile up
masses of shadows everywhere. A line of men, stripped to the waist, is
before the furnace doors. They bend over, looking neither to right nor
left, handling their shovels as if they were part of their bodies, with
a strange, awkward, swinging rhythm. They use the shovels to throw open
the furnace doors. Then from these fiery round holes in the black a
flood of terrific light and heat pours full upon the men who are
outlined in silhouette in the crouching, inhuman attitudes of chained
gorillas. The men shovel with a rhythmic motion, swinging as on a pivot
from the coal which lies in heaps on the floor behind to hurl it into
the flaming mouths before them. There is a tumult of noise--the brazen
clang of the furnace doors as they are flung open or slammed shut, the
grating, teeth-gritting grind of steel against steel, of crunching
coal. This clash of sounds stuns one's ears with its rending
dissonance. But there is order in it, rhythm, a mechanical regulated
recurrence, a tempo. And rising above all, making the air hum with the
quiver of liberated energy, the roar of leaping flames in the furnaces,
the monotonous throbbing beat of the engines.

As the curtain rises, the furnace doors are shut. The men are taking a
breathing spell. One or two are arranging the coal behind them, pulling
it into more accessible heaps. The others can be dimly made out leaning
on their shovels in relaxed attitudes of exhaustion.

SCENE--The firemen's forecastle. Yank's watch has just come off duty
and had dinner. Their faces and bodies shine from a soap and water
scrubbing but around their eyes, where a hasty dousing does not touch,
the coal dust sticks like black make-up, giving them a queer, sinister
expression. Yank has not washed either face or body. He stands out in
contrast to them, a blackened, brooding figure. He is seated forward on
a bench in the exact attitude of Rodin's "The Thinker." The others,
most of them smoking pipes, are staring at Yank half-apprehensively, as
if fearing an outburst; half-amusedly, as if they saw a joke somewhere
that tickled them.

SCENE--Three weeks later. A corner of Fifth Avenue in the Fifties on a
fine, Sunday morning. A general atmosphere of clean, well-tidied, wide
street; a flood of mellow, tempered sunshine; gentle, genteel breezes.
In the rear, the show windows of two shops, a jewelry establishment on
the corner, a furrier's next to it. Here the adornments of extreme
wealth are tantalizingly displayed. The jeweler's window is gaudy with
glittering diamonds, emeralds, rubies, pearls, etc., fashioned in
ornate tiaras, crowns, necklaces, collars, etc. From each piece hangs
an enormous tag from which a dollar sign and numerals in intermittent
electric lights wink out the incredible prices. The same in the
furrier's. Rich furs of all varieties hang there bathed in a downpour
of artificial light. The general effect is of a background of
magnificence cheapened and made grotesque by commercialism, a
background in tawdry disharmony with the clear light and sunshine on
the street itself.

Up the side street Yank and Long come swaggering. Long is dressed in
shore clothes, wears a black Windsor tie, cloth cap. Yank is in his
dirty dungarees. A fireman's cap with black peak is cocked defiantly on
the side of his head. He has not shaved for days and around his fierce,
resentful eyes--as around those of Long to a lesser degree--the black
smudge of coal dust still sticks like make-up. They hesitate and stand
together at the corner, swaggering, looking about them with a forced,
defiant contempt.

SCENE--Night of the following day. A row of cells in the prison on
Blackwells Island. The cells extend back diagonally from right front to
left rear. They do not stop, but disappear in the dark background as if
they ran on, numberless, into infinity. One electric bulb from the low
ceiling of the narrow corridor sheds its light through the heavy steel
bars of the cell at the extreme front and reveals part of the interior.
YANK can be seen within, crouched on the edge of his cot in the
attitude of Rodin's "The Thinker." His face is spotted with black and
blue bruises. A blood-stained bandage is wrapped around his head.

SCENE--Nearly a month later. An I. W. W. local near the waterfront,
showing the interior of a front room on the ground floor, and the
street outside. Moonlight on the narrow street, buildings massed in
black shadow. The interior of the room, which is general assembly room,
office, and reading room, resembles some dingy settlement boys club. A
desk and high stool are in one corner. A table with papers, stacks of
pamphlets, chairs about it, is at center. The whole is decidedly cheap,
banal, commonplace and unmysterious as a room could well be. The
secretary is perched on the stool making entries in a large ledger. An
eye shade casts his face into shadows. Eight or ten men, longshoremen,
iron workers, and the like, are grouped about the table. Two are
playing checkers. One is writing a letter. Most of them are smoking
pipes. A big signboard is on the wall at the rear, "Industrial Workers
of the World--Local No. 57."

SCENE--Twilight of the next day. The monkey house at the Zoo. One spot
of clear gray light falls on the front of one cage so that the interior
can be seen. The other cages are vague, shrouded in shadow from which
chatterings pitched in a conversational tone can be heard. On the one
cage a sign from which the word "gorilla" stands out. The gigantic
animal himself is seen squatting on his haunches on a bench in much the
same attitude as Rodin's "Thinker." YANK enters from the left.
Immediately a chorus of angry chattering and screeching breaks out. The
gorilla turns his eyes but makes no sound or move.